# Air Quality Index Delhi
This project aims to analyze the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi, India over a period of time. The dataset used in this project contains hourly AQI values for Delhi from 2015 to 2020. The project uses the R programming language for data analysis and visualization.
# Data Source
The dataset used in this project was obtained from the [Central Pollution Control Board website](https://cpcb.gov.in/). The dataset contains hourly AQI values for Delhi from January 2015 to December 2020.

# Project Structure
# The project contains the following files:

- **data/**: Folder containing the raw data file and the cleaned data file.
- **R/**: Folder containing the R scripts used for data analysis and visualization.
- **output/**: Folder containing the output plots and tables generated by the R scripts.
- **Analysis_of_Air_Quality_Index_in_Delhi.Rproj**: RStudio project file.
- **README.md**: This file describing the project.

# Packages Used
- tidyverse
- lubridate
- ggplot2

You can install these packages by running the following command in R:
```R 
 install.packages(c("tidyverse", "lubridate", "ggplot2"))
 ```

# How to Use
To reproduce the analysis and visualizations, follow these steps:

- Clone or download the project repository.
- Open the Analysis_of_Air_Quality_Index_in_Delhi.Rproj file in RStudio.
- Open the R/01-data-cleaning.R script and run it to clean the raw data and save it as a CSV file in the data/ folder.
- Open the R/02-data-analysis.R script and run it to analyze the cleaned data and generate plots and tables in the output/ folder.

# Results
The project analyzes the hourly AQI values in Delhi over a period of time, and generates several visualizations to highlight the trends and patterns in the data. The analysis reveals that the AQI in Delhi is generally poor, with a large number of days falling in the "Unhealthy" or "Very Unhealthy" category. The project also shows how the AQI varies over time, and identifies the months and hours of the day when the AQI is typically the highest.

# Conclusion
In conclusion, this project provides a comprehensive analysis of the Air Quality Index in Delhi, India, and highlights the need for effective measures to reduce air pollution in the city. The project demonstrates how data analysis and visualization can be used to gain insights into complex environmental issues, and serves as a useful resource for researchers and policymakers working in the field of air quality management.
